# selection_model

I developed this model for my Master's thesis about Cultural Evolution and Dual-Inheritance Theory. I revised and improved former models proposed by Henrich & Boyd and Sperber & Claidiere: these models tried to understand whether, in a cultural evolutionary process, the dominant force is selection or attraction. Briefly, selection is a (mostly) preservative process, analogous to natural selection, which produces changes in the relative frequencies of competing traits in a population of indivuals who can imitate one or more models and in turn transmit ideas to others. Here traits are intended as cultural traits, for instance politcal ideas. Attraction, on the other hand, is a constructive process: in trasmission, traits/ideas are fundamentally changed towards attractors, i.e. ideas very appealing from a psychological viewpoint. 
Two schools (DIT and Epidemiologists) argued, respectively, for the importance of selection and attraction. My revised models shows that, in a populaton of individuals, the strenght of both processes depends on a number of factors, including how attractors stength are modelled, where selection peaks are placed, how cultural transmission is modelled, and how many models each individuals is allowed to imitate. In different scenarios, different process might dominate, and in general the evolution depends on their joint action.

Concretely, the code explores several scenarios. In the main file, users can enter values for the main parameters (position of attractors/selection peaks, number of models, etc). The function files contain most important functions required to run the model. Specifically, this model is an IBM, as the overall result depends on the combined actions of several individuals (imitation of models, transmission of ideas, and similar). 
